h1. Rails Paperclip S3 Example/Tutorial

An easy guide to image attachments using paperclip and Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3). Includes example files.

h3. Prerequisites

* "Imagemagick":http://rmagick.rubyforge.org/install-faq.html and the RMagick gem both need to be installed and configured for your system.
* If you want to use the local file system for storage, you can skip the next three prerequisites and use the alternate code in */models/user.rb*.
* You need to sign up with "Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)":http://aws.amazon.com/s3/ 
* Amazon will provide you with the necessary security credentials: *access_key_id* and *secret_access_key*.
* You need to set up an amazon bucket for your storage.

h3. Get Started
This tutorial assumes that you are setting up attachments on your user model. You can alter it to attach images to any model you like.

* Add these lines to */config/environment.rb*

bq.	config.gem "paperclip", :version => "~> 2.3"
	config.gem "aws-s3", :version => ">= 0.6.2", :lib => "aws/s3"  (ignore if you are using local storage).
 	config.gem "rmagick", :lib => "RMagick2"
    require 'RMagick' (at the very end of environment.rb)
	
* rake gems:install

* Generate a migration:

bq. script/generate paperclip user avatar ( User is the model and avatar is the attachment name )

* rake db:migrate

* set up your user model: *(S3 storage)*

bq.	attr_accessible :avatar, :avatar_file_name	
    validates_attachment_presence :avatar *leave line out if you prefer having a default image when none is attached*
	validates_attachment_size :avatar, :less_than => 3.megabytes    	

bq.	has_attached_file :avatar,
 	:styles => {:thumb => {:geometry => '75x75>', :format => :jpg},
	:original => {:geometry => '180x180>', :format => :jpg}},
 	:storage => :s3,
 	:s3_credentials => "#{RAILS_ROOT}/config/s3.yml",
 	:path => ":attachment/:id/:style.:extension",
 	:bucket => *'Your Amazon S3 Bucket Name'*,
 	:default_url => '/images/missing_:style.jpg'

* Or, set up your user model: *(local storage)*
 
bq. attr_accessible :avatar, :avatar_file_name 
 	validates_attachment_presence :avatar  *leave line out if you prefer having a default image when none is attached*
 	validates_attachment_size :avatar, :less_than => 3.megabytes 

bq.	has_attached_file :avatar,
	:styles => {:thumb => {:geometry => '75x75>', :format => :jpg},
	:original => {:geometry => '180x180>', :format => :jpg}},
	:url => "/system/:attachment/:id/:style/:basename.:extension",  
	:path => ":rails_root/public/system/:attachment/:id/:style/:basename.:extension",  
	:default_url => '/images/missing_:style.jpg'   
 
* You can set up as many styles/sizes as you need: 

bq. medium => {:geometry => '100x100>', :format => :png}
	giant => {:geometry => '600x800>', :format => :png}
	
bq.	The '>' symbol keeps the image from being modified when resizing, using a '#' symbol will centrally crop the image.
	If you use *original* as one of your styles, the uploaded file will be resized. If you do not use this style, the original will be kept in the file system.

bq. Optional: add default images to */public/images* named missing_style.format for every style you create. If no image is attached, paperclip will use these images. I have included some nice default photos of bananas in the example files.
    Example default image names:

bq. missing_original.jpg
	missing_thumb.jpg
	missing_giant.png
 
* Create a new file in */config*,  name it *s3.yml* and add the following (from your Amazon account credenteals):
 
bq.	access_key_id: Your Access Key Id
	secret_access_key: Your Secret Access Key 
	
* Create a new file in */config/initializers*, name it *paperclip.rb* and add the following:
 
bq. require "paperclip"  
 	Paperclip.options[:command_path] = "/ImageMagick"
 
* *The views*

bq. *user/new.html.erb*
<pre><% form_for (@user, :html => { :multipart => true}) do |f| %>
    <%= f.error_messages %>
    <%= f.label :avatar, 'Choose a photo:'%>
    <%= f.file_field :avatar %>  
    <%= f.submit 'Create' %>
<% end %>
</pre> 

bq. *user/show.html.erb* 
<pre>The original style:
	<%=h image_tag @user.avatar.url %> 
	The thumbnail style:     
	<%=h image_tag @user.avatar.url(:thumb) %>	
</pre> 
 
* Fire up your server and test everything out.

h3. Helpful Links

* "Thoughtbot paperclip":https://github.com/thoughtbot/paperclip
* "More paperclip documentation":http://rdoc.info/github/thoughtbot/paperclip 
* "Amazon web services(S3)":http://aws.amazon.com/s3/ 
* "Imagemagick / RMagick":http://rmagick.rubyforge.org/install-faq.html
* "Railscasts":http://railscasts.com/episodes/134-paperclip - another good tutorial on Paperclip 



